From the moment of birth, infants are wired for connection. The babies bond with caregiver shapes more than their earlier emotional worlds. It also has lasting effects on how their brains develop, how they learn to manage emotions throughout life. Attachment theory, developed in the mid 20th century, and explains how the emotional relationship between child and caregiver serves as a foundation for a psychological development. So how we are held, how we are soothed, how we are looked at, responded to, and nurture shapes, not just emotional life, but also brain development. 

Emotional self regulation, ER is the ability to understand, manage, and appropriately respond to emotional experiences ESR develops through repeated, consistent interactions with caregivers. Especially in the earliest stage of life. When infants are held, comforted, watched, and responded to with warmth. The child learns to manage emotional discomfort. Infin understands, begins to understand that safety and comfort. can be restored. after an event, after upset. Early experiences with ESR are carried into adulthood. This is both in terms of behavior and brain structure itself. 

This emotional development is grounded in biology. Neuroscience, neuroscientists have shown their early attachment of affects brain development. During infancy, the brain is incredibly plastic. It develops rapidly. and is develops rapidly and it responds to environmental input Experiences of security or of stress in the early years of life shape neural circuits a particular interest are areas like the amygdala, which processes fear and emotional salients. The prefrontal cortex PFC, which helps regulate impulses and planning and thinking through emotions. In addition, systems like the oxytasin pathway and the hypotylamic pituitary adrenal axis, HPA influence bonding and stress response. 

This literature review arose out of curiosity with attachment experiences and their influence on ESR. Five peer reviewed studies show the impact of ESR on key neurobiological systems, such as the amygdala PFC, oxytos and pathways, and HPA access. These studies - from both behavioral and empirical perspectives - show how the emotional and neurological dynamics of infant brain development

